README.md, before:

puppet-wsus
===========

** Member of the rismoney suite of Windows Puppet Providers **

puppet wsus type/provider

What is WSUS?
Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) enables information technology administrators to deploy the latest Microsoft product updates to computers that are running the Windows operating system. By using WSUS, administrators can fully manage the distribution of updates that are released through Microsoft Update to computers in their network.

What is Puppet?
Puppet is IT automation software that helps system administrators manage infrastructure throughout its lifecycle, from provisioning and configuration to patch management and compliance. Using Puppet, you can easily automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change, scaling from 10s of servers to 1000s, on-premise or in the cloud.

What is puppet-wsus?
It is a tool to manage WSUS with Puppet.

According to [sans] (http://www.sans.org/reading_room/whitepapers/bestprac/practical-methodology-implementing-patch-management-process_1206) 
an organization should have in place a strategy for establishing, documenting, maintaining and changing the
configuration of all servers and workstations according to their function.

This project's goal is to futher realize that goal on Windows Servers

The initial approach is to:
* Define a set of patch groups
* Place Computers into those patch groups
* Assign Patches to Patch Groups
* Let Puppet do the needful, and let Automatic Updates do the needful

Initial Requirements:

* Development being performed on Win2012 using integrated Feature/Roles
* Most likely supports  Windows Server 2008 R2 with [WSUS SP2](httpo://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5216)
* Leverage PoshWSUS available here http://poshwsus.codeplex.com/  -  The psm1 file needs to have write-host omitted.  Patched on github PoshWSUS repo

Status:
* Provider is currently functional!  Woot!

TODO
* Rpec: haven't tried a slew of use cases and edge cases
* Improve runtime.  Some of the Calls are unnecessarily expensive
* Automatic Updates Management (Separate module)

Usage:

```puppet

wsusgroup {'win2012r2-prod':
  ensure  => present,
  server  => 'my-wsus-server.example.com',
}

wsuscomputer {'mypc.example.com':
  ensure         => present,
  wsusgroup      => 'win2012r2-prod',
  require        => Wsusgroup['win2012-prod'],
  server         => 'my-wsus-server.example.com',
}

wsuspatchstatus {'kb123456':
  ensure          => present # install|removal  (akin to present|absent),
  server          => 'my-wsus-server.example.com',
  require         => Wsusgroup['win2012-prod'],
  wsusgroups      => ['win2012r2-prod'],
}
```

Commit message:

provide a reference example on how I initially implemented
this is a port of an actual puppet wsus implementation using puppet

README.md, after:

puppet-wsus
===========

** Member of the rismoney suite of Windows Puppet Providers **

puppet wsus type/provider

What is WSUS?
Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) enables information technology administrators to deploy the latest Microsoft product updates to computers that are running the Windows operating system. By using WSUS, administrators can fully manage the distribution of updates that are released through Microsoft Update to computers in their network.

What is Puppet?
Puppet is IT automation software that helps system administrators manage infrastructure throughout its lifecycle, from provisioning and configuration to patch management and compliance. Using Puppet, you can easily automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change, scaling from 10s of servers to 1000s, on-premise or in the cloud.

What is puppet-wsus?
It is a tool to manage WSUS with Puppet.

According to [sans] (http://www.sans.org/reading_room/whitepapers/bestprac/practical-methodology-implementing-patch-management-process_1206) 
an organization should have in place a strategy for establishing, documenting, maintaining and changing the
configuration of all servers and workstations according to their function.

This project's goal is to futher realize that goal on Windows Servers

The initial approach is to:
* Define a set of patch groups
* Place Computers into those patch groups
* Assign Patches to Patch Groups
* Let Puppet do the needful, and let Automatic Updates do the needful

Initial Requirements:

* Development being performed on Win2012 using integrated Feature/Roles
* Most likely supports  Windows Server 2008 R2 with [WSUS SP2](httpo://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5216)
* Leverage PoshWSUS available here http://poshwsus.codeplex.com/  -  The psm1 file needs to have write-host omitted.  Patched on github PoshWSUS repo

Status:
* Provider is currently functional!  Woot!

TODO
* Rpec: haven't tried a slew of use cases and edge cases
* Improve runtime.  Some of the Calls are unnecessarily expensive
* Automatic Updates Management (Separate module)

Usage:

```puppet

wsusgroup {'win2012r2-prod':
  ensure  => present,
  server  => 'my-wsus-server.example.com',
}

wsuscomputer {'mypc.example.com':
  ensure         => present,
  wsusgroup      => 'win2012r2-prod',
  require        => Wsusgroup['win2012-prod'],
  server         => 'my-wsus-server.example.com',
}

wsuspatchstatus {'add kb123456 to win2012-prod': # this is just a uniq namevar right now
  ensure          => present # install|removal  (akin to present|absent),
  server          => 'my-wsus-server.example.com',
  require         => Wsusgroup['win2012-prod'],
  wsusgroups      => ['win2012r2-prod'],
}
```
